[Serverless] Document impact of using logsDB for security users (#6221)
elastic/security-docs: docs/serverless/rules/detections-logsdb-impact.asciidoc

[[detections-logsdb-index-mode-impact]]
= Using logsDB index mode with {sec-serverless}

> LogsDB is enabled by default for Elastic serverless. This topic explains the impact of using logsDB index mode with  {sec-serverless}.  

Reviewer: We should use the attribute [here](https://github.com/elastic/docs/blob/master/shared/attributes.asciidoc#L184). 
```suggestion
LogsDB is enabled by default for {serverless-full}. This topic explains the impact of using logsDB index mode with  {sec-serverless}.  
```

With logsDB index mode, the original `_source` field is not stored in the index but can be reconstructed using {ref}/mapping-source-field.html#synthetic-source[synthetic `_source`].

> When the `_source` is reconstructed, {ref}/mapping-source-field.html#synthetic-source-modifications[modifications] are possible. Therefore, there could be a mismatch between how users expect field values to be formatted.

Author: ```suggestion
When the `_source` is reconstructed, {ref}/mapping-source-field.html#synthetic-source-modifications[modifications] are possible. Therefore, there could be a mismatch between how users expectations and how fields are formatted.
```

> When the `_source` is reconstructed, you can make {ref}/mapping-source-field.html#synthetic-source-modifications[modifications] close to the original data. However, there could be a mismatch between how users expect field values to be formatted.

Author: Thanks! Changes made in [eb8f5b0](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6221/commits/eb8f5b0673885dbc0f9f372b5ca290164945c2cd).

Continue reading to find out how this affects specific {sec-serverless} components. 

[discrete]
[[logsdb-alerts]]
== Alerts

> When alerts are generated, the `_source` event is copied over into the alert in order to retain the original data. When the logsDB index mode is applied, the `_source` event stored in the alert is an event reconstructed using synthetic `_source`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When alerts are generated, the `_source` event is copied into the alert to retain the original data. When the logsDB index mode is applied, the `_source` event stored in the alert is reconstructed using synthetic `_source`.
```

If you are switching to using logsDB index mode, the `_source` field stored in the alert might look different in certain situations:

* {ref}/mapping-source-field.html#synthetic-source-modifications-leaf-arrays[Arrays can be reconstructed differently or deduplicated]
* {ref}/mapping-source-field.html#synthetic-source-modifications-field-names[Field names] 

Alerts produced by the following rule types could be affected:

* Custom query
* Event correlation (non-sequence only)

> * Non-aggregate rule types

Author: Will need to specify what these are.

Author: Addressed in [85a24ab](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6221/commits/85a24ab282bcf14c98cdd09dcaead40db78f9b0b).

Alerts that are generated by threshold, {ml}, and event correlation sequence rules are not affected since they do not contain copies of the original source.

[discrete]
[[logsdb-rule-actions]]
== Rule actions

While we do not recommend using `_source` for actions, in cases where the action relies on the `_source`, the same limitations and changes apply.

> If you send alert notifications by enabling {kibana-ref}/alerting-getting-started.html#alerting-concepts-actions[actions], and then have logic outside of {sec-serverless} based on fields formatted from the original source, those flows may be affected. In particular, affected fields would be an array of objects.

Reviewer: This whole paragraph is a little confusing to me and I'm not 100% sure what it means. Is there any way we could break this down into simpler terms?

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like this: "If you send alert notifications by enabling {kibana-ref}/alerting-getting-started.html#alerting-concepts-actions[actions], and the external systems have workflows or automations based on fields formatted from the original source, they may be affected. In particular, this can happen when the fields used are arrays of objects."

Author: ```suggestion
If you send alert notifications by enabling {kibana-ref}/alerting-getting-started.html#alerting-concepts-actions[actions] to the external systems that have workflows or automations based on fields formatted from the original source, they may be affected. In particular, this can happen when the fields used are arrays of objects.
```

We recommend checking and adjusting the rule actions using `_source` before switching to logsDB index mode.

[discrete]
[[logsdb-runtime-fields]]
== Runtime fields

> Runtime fields on alerts index that reference `_source` may be affected.

Reviewer 2: this was resolved in the next commits

> Runtime fields that reference `_source` may be affected. Some runtime fields might not work and need to be adjusted. For example, if an event was indexed with the value of `agent.name` in the dot-notation form, it will be returned in the nested form and may not work. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime fields that reference `_source` may be affected. Some runtime fields might not work and need to be adjusted. For example, if an event was indexed with the value of `agent.name` in the dot-notation form, it will be returned in the nested form and might not work. 
```

With logsDB index mode, the original `_source` field is not stored in the index but can be reconstructed using {ref}/mapping-source-field.html#synthetic-source[synthetic `_source`].

When the `_source` is reconstructed, {ref}/mapping-source-field.html#synthetic-source-modifications[modifications] are possible. Therefore, there could be a mismatch between how users expect field values to be formatted.

> 

Reviewer 2: Therefore, there could be a mismatch between how users expectations and how fields are formatted.

Author: Adding in https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6221/files#r1859257712.
